# ORB-Feature-based-Object-Tracking
Object tracking involves detecting the object, ORB-feature extraction and tracking and finally combining these two modules and applying them in real-time.
## Object Detection
Object detection is one of the most extensively researched topics in the field of Computer Vision. It generally involves with the identification of a particular class of object and localizing it in the image. Deep Neural Networks offer an efficient way to detect the presence of objects of multiple classes and identify their location in the given image. They generally take an image as an input and output the label of class of the object along with the coordinates of rectangle describing the region occupied by that specified object. We have used pre-trained ssd-mobilenet-v2-coco neural network architecture for object detection. Considering speed vs accuracy trade-off, SSD (single shot detector) architecture works faster than YOLOv2 and accurate than YOLOv3.The ssd-mobilenet-v2-coco network was pre-trained on COCO dataset to detect 90 different
common objects. The model is then optimized using NVIDIA TensorRT on the Jetson Nano. TensorRT generates optimized runtime engines deployable in the mobile robot for real-time
execution. The deep neural network takes a pre-processed image of 300x300x3 size as input and outputs a dictionary type data structure with the corresponding class label and coordinates of the bounding box of the specified object which serve as region of interest.
## ORB Feature Extraction and Tracking
Feature detection and matching is an important task in many Computer Vision applications. Oriented FAST and rotated BRIEF (ORB) is a fast-robust local feature detector. ORB feature detector works as good as SIFT feature detector but works twice as fast as it. ORB is basically a combination of FAST (Features from Accelerated Segment Test) keypoint detector and rotation compensated BRIEF (Binary Robust Independent Elementary Features) descriptor [3]. FAST keypoint detector is noting but a corner detector which detects the presence of corners in the image. It is computationally efficient than most of the available feature extraction algorithms. FAST algorithm detects the keypoint as a corner based on the intensity of the surrounding pixels. Live input from the Raspberry Pi V2 camera is captured and keypoints are generated for each frame using OpenCV.
## Object Tracking based on Deep Learning and ORB-features
In traditional tracking algorithms based on feature extraction, we must manually specify the object which we have to track initially. Also, redundant features need to be computed in each frame. In object tracking based on deep learning, there is just a bounding box for the specified object. It cannot represent accurately the motion changes. Also, tracking accuracy depends mostly on the detection accuracy on how aptly the bounding box represents the object. By combining these two methods, these issues can be resolved. The object detection algorithm based on deep learning algorithm provides the class of the object along with the bounding box coordinates. The region of interest generated using the object detection algorithm is used to extract ORB-features along with the descriptors in this region in the whole image. The ORBfeatures generated track the object more affectively than the deep learning-based methods as they account even for the rotation of the objects. 
## Results
ORB-features of the selected objects are successfully extracted along with their descriptors. Lighting conditions play an extremely important role in the feature-based tracking. Variations in the intensities or orientations could lead to unstable feature generation. However, combining deep learning algorithms with traditional feature-based algorithms provides an opportunity for robust tracking of the objects in real-time.
